Now that we have sort of the big picture spelled out, let's just start building these methods one by
one.
So let's start with get ARC's.
So the construct function ends down here.
I'll just create a new method.
So function Namee, get ARGs in this function, I'm going to start building a temporary array.
So I just made up this name of temp but set that to equal an array and now I'm going to drop down in
one by one, pulling the specific values from the Eurail that I want.
Because for example, if someone types in a made up parameter of just random characters and set that
to a value, we don't care about that.
Right.
There's only specific names that we're going to care about.
So let's spell out the first one together.
So quotes, let's say we're looking for fav color and I'll just set that to equal.
And now, before I use the tool to pull a value from the GIT request, let's first start by wrapping
it inside.
Sanitize TextField.
Let's be sure to add a comma at the end of this line while we're at it.
Now, in these parentheses, this is where you would say dollar sign, underscore all uppercase, get
square brackets, quotes and then just the name of the parameter.
So fav color.
Now we just do this for each property we want.
I'll do this off camera and then you can just pause the video to follow along.
But essentially I'm just going to copy and paste this line and just change this value and this value.
OK, so these are the eight parameters I want to look for.
Again, feel free to pause the video and spell these out with me.
Let's be sure to end this line with the closing parentheses, with a semicolon, and then I'm going
to drop down.
Now, we have no guarantee that each of these will have a value.
For example, if the euro only specifies species and favorite color, all of these values will be blank.
So what I'm going to do now is filter through this array and only keep the items that actually have
a value.
And then that's what this overall Guitar ARGs function will return.
So down here, I'm just going to say return array filter, which is a function semicolon.
We give array filter to arguments.
The first is the original array that you want to work with.
So we named temp, so temp.
The second argument is a function that you're going to run once for each item, so I'll just provide
an inline function here.
So function parentheses, curly brackets in the parentheses.
Let's have a parameter, just call a dollar sign X and then in the body of our function, just return
dollar sign X filter works just like it does in JavaScript.
So if you return a value of true here, that item will be included in the new array we're building.
So essentially, as long as it has a value and isn't empty, well, it'll be included in the new array
that we're returning.
OK, so back up at the top of our file, we've taken care of our args.
Now let's worry about this create placeholders method.
So I'll scroll back down maybe below our git args functions right here.
You'll know you're in the right place if you're still within that one final curly bracket for the class
overall.
But right here I would just say function create placeholders, parentheses, curly brackets and all
we need to do in this function is slightly modify this array.
So in this argument array we do want sort of the property name because we need this name for our school
query.
Right.
We need to say species' equals whatever the value is.
However, in our placeholders array, we don't need the property name, we only need the actual value.
So in this function I would just return array map.
Map takes two arguments.
It's a little bit different though.
So the second argument is the array that you want to work with.
So that would be dollar sign this.
Look inside it for args.
The first argument is your function that you want to run once for each item.
So again I'll just give it an inline function, function, parentheses, curly brackets, let's give
it a parameter of dollar sign X and then inside our function I literally just want to return the value.
Cool.
So now we'll have this array in placeholders that doesn't have the property name, it just has the actual
value.
So we've created these two methods.
Now we just need to go build a method called create where text.
So let's go back down towards the bottom right about here.
I will create a new function with a name of create where text, parentheses, curly brackets.
Inside this function I'll make up a variable name.
So maybe just dollar sign.
I'll make up a name of where query equals four.
Now just add it to an empty string and then on a new line.
That's what we want to return right is our where query.
And now in between those two lines, this is where we.
And just build out the actual dynamic text, so first of all, if there are no incoming arguments,
for example, if someone just visits the base URL for our page without any neutral parameters, in that
case, we don't need the upper case where at all in our SQL statement.
So the first thing I would do is have an if statement where the condition is if and I would use the
count function and I'm just going to count this look inside it for ARGs.
So as long as that's greater than zero that will evaluate to true.
If that is true, then I just want to say where query should now equal all uppercase where and then
a space semicolon below this.
Now I just want to loop through the args array and just start adding on to this string of text where
we say species' equals percent, X mean weight equals percent D so we'll just have a for each parentheses
currently brackets.
Before we go any further, do make sure you have a space after all.
Upper case where before you end the quote, that would be a very frustrating mistake to try to troubleshoot
anyways for the parentheses of foreach we just tell it which array we want to loop through.
So that's dollar sign this look inside it for args as dollar sign index equals greater then.
So Arrow symbol dollar sign item.
I'm doing this because I'm not actually interested in the value, I'm just trying to get access to the
property name or the key name for each item.
Right.
We've already dealt with the actual values in our placeholder array.
Now we're just interested in the actual parameter names like species, fav color.
So now in the curly brackets, four for each.
This is where I would say where query I want to add on to it.
Currently it's just where and then a space and then we can say dot equals to add on to it.
And now for certain properties, this is going to be very simple for Species'.
It would just be dollar sign index and then we would concatenate on a string of text and say where that
equals percent.
S right.
The placeholder.
However, remember, we're trying to take care of arguments like Year and Max here and Min wait and
Max wait.
And those don't correspond one to one with an exact SQL column name like something like Species' would.
So to make this flexible and easy to list out all of our different details, I would actually create
a separate function that uses a switch statement.
So let's point towards a method that doesn't even exist yet.
But this and we'll call it maybe a specific query, call it semicolon in the parentheses, just give
it dollar sign index.
And then this function can be responsible for all of the details.
Before we go create this function, we need to remember that in between each of these statements in
school, you want the all uppercase.
And so we need an uppercase and after each item, except for the very last final item.
And because our key is a word instead of a no, I'm not sure of a super elegant way to check to make
sure you're not on the last item.
So here's what I would do right before the foreach.
I would just create a variable call it current position it to equals zero.
Inside are for each loop.
At the very end of it, I would just increment that.
So current position plus plus.
And then right before that line I would just write an if statement.
So I'd say if parentheses curly brackets if current position.
And I essentially want this to be true for every item except the very last item in the array.
So I would just say if that does not equal and then I would count dollar sign this, look inside it
for ARGs after that parentheses before the final one minus one.
Right.
Because arrays are zero based.
So essentially for every item except the very last item.
Let's just add on to our web query and say dollar sign where query equal to add onto it, string a text,
let's have a space all uppercase and and then another space semicolon.
OK, now we just need to go create the method with this made up name we chose of specific query.
It's job is to return different text depending on the index that we give it.
Let me explain.
So let's just go create a function with that name.
So function specific query parentheses, curly brackets in the parentheses.
We want to receive that incoming index value.
And now in this function, let's use a switch statement.
Sources switch parentheses, curly brackets.
What are we switching based on while that incoming index in these curly brackets?
Now we just spell out different cases depending on what the incoming value is.
So let's say the first case will check for is if it is min wage.
Right, the minimum weight you want to query for so colon on a new line, we can indent and say return
string text and now there is no column in our database called min weight.
But we do have a column in our database called Pet Weight.
So the actual SQL query would just be pet weight and then we're checking for a minimum weight.
So that would just be if it's greater than or equal to the placeholder value percent d remember it's
s for a string of text, it's D for a digit or number.
At the end of this line, let's include a semicolon drop down.
We can unindexed one and just spell out another case.
So let's say max weight column, we would return a string of text.
Pet weight is less than or equal to the value semicolon.
Next up, let's spell out maybe year in max year or so case where it's colon.
We would return a string of text.
And again, there is no column in our database called Minear or Max Year, but there is a column called
Birth Year.
So we would say return where birth year is greater than or equal two percent D semicolon.
Let's have another case for max year colon return string of text.
Birth year is less than or equal two percent D and that with a semicolon.
And now finally those are all of the unique examples.
And then at the very end of our switch statement, we can have a default option.
So we'll just say default.
This name needs to be exactly this default colon and then we would just return dollar sign index, concatenate
on a string of text equals and then placeholder s semicolon.
You could have a space here too if you wanted to.
But the idea here is for all of the other things like species, favorite color, favorite hobby.
This will work for all of those cases.
So as long as the index doesn't match one of these, then this will be used.
Let's go ahead and save this and test it out.
So on the front end, if I refresh, I don't have any parameters up in the euro, so I just get the
first one hundred pets.
But if I say question, species equals dog.
Perfect, I only see dogs let me check for only dogs whose favorite color is green.
So and fav color equals green.
Perfect.
Let's try to use the min wait and Max wait.
So at the very end here and min wait equals 20 and max weight equals 50.
Perfect.
So now all of the weights fall within that range.
Finally, let's pay attention to these count results.
Right.
So it should say found maybe 500 results showing the first 100.
So back in our code, in order to return the overall count, we'll need to perform another query against
the database.
Technically, there is a way to just send one request to the database and get back the results and the
overall count.
But I've seen a few threads on Stack Overflow where that's actually perhaps less performant than just
sending two separate requests.
So here's what I would do.
Maybe right above this line.
I would just say dollar sign this, create a new property called Count and set that to equal dollar
sign WP DB.
Look inside that for a function called git var semicolon and then we'll just give that a prepared statement.
So dollar sign db look inside it for prepare.
We prepare gets two arguments.
The placeholders will be exactly the same, just like we did on this line.
So dollar sign this look inside it for placeholders.
The query will be a little bit different though because we definitely don't want to write limit one
hundred at the end and the very beginning query will also be a little bit different.
So here's what I would do.
Maybe right below this line.
I would just create a different variable and call it count.
Query equals string the text select and then instead of asterisk, I would say count parentheses, asterisk
from and then table name and then a space semicolon.
So it's similar to this, but it is different.
And then I would just reuse my create where text function.
So I would just duplicate this line of code but change the variable name to count query and then we
don't need to add a limit to the count query.
So then down here instead of the a placeholder, it would just be dollar sign, count query, let's
give that a save.
And then back in our HTML template we can actually use this county property.
So back in our template we're just looking for the paragraph element right above the table.
So where it says found and then the number, I would just hollow this out, go into P and Echo, dollar
sign, get pets, look inside it for the count property.
Let's give that a save if we refresh.
Cool.
So in my case I found a hundred and sixty two dogs that like the color green and are in this weight
range.
And then right here we, we just want to display how many results were actually displaying currently.
So we know that's one hundred.
But if we ever change that in our query, we want this to be dynamic.
So in our template, what you can do, let's find that.
Here's the hardcoded X.
I would replace that and then go into P and echo out and then I would just count.
And what do I want to count?
Well, our array of pets.
So that's dollar sign.
Get pets, look inside it for the pets property.
Let's give that to save.
And if I reload, perfect.
And that is going to bring this lesson to a close now.
Yes.
You wouldn't expect the visitors of your site to actually type in Eurail parameters like this.
You would instead have an HTML form with checkboxes or select elements, but then in HTML form, when
you submit the page it will generate, you are URLs identical to this.
So the point of this chapter is not how to build an HTML form, it's how to actually work with values
and feed those into our database queries.
So perhaps that would be a fun extra credit challenge for you to build a front end that actually generates
these URLs.
But for now, that's really beyond the scope of this chapter.
So where do we go from here?
Well, now we're familiar with building queries.
In our very next lesson, I want to show you how we could actually modify the database from the front
end here.
So, for example, only for logged in admin users, wouldn't it be cool if down at the very bottom of
this table there was a form where you could type in the name of a pet click submit and it would actually
add that pet into the database?
Also, wouldn't it be neat if there again only for admin logged in users if there was an extra.
Column at the edge here with a delete button so that you could delete any row that you wanted to.
Well, that's what we're going to work on moving forward.
Let's keep things rolling and I'll see you then.